Although data science, artificial intelligence,
and machine learning have risen to prominence over the last decade,
the mathematical and philosophical roots of
these technologies date back to the middle of the last century.
Data science has seen several booms and winters with
cycles alternating as hype and excitement rises,
and then inevitably falls as realized value fails to reach its lofty expectations.
Many of the machine learning techniques in use
today were originally proposed decades ago,
but have only become feasible in practice as computing power has
increased and computing costs have decreased.
Data science as a field followed on initial excitement around big data and has
since matured to hold a sustaining role across industry and research today.